---
layout: post
title: The International Phonetic Alphabet
---

# What is it?

The International Phonetic Alphabet, or IPA for short, is how linguists represent the known sounds in every language that has been studied. As you can tell from the title, the IPA is an _alphabet_, so vowels and consonants are both represented using symbols that we call letters. The IPA uses letters that are based on existing Indo-European letters, mostly borrowing from the Latin and Greek alphabets and modifying letters as necessary.

So why not just use the Latin alphabet entirely? This has to do with its irregularities: for example, the word _**sh**ut_ contains a "sh" sound, which is quite odd because it's a single sound made by two separate letters. To avoid disambiguation, the IPA created a separate letter for that sound: /ʃ/. There's actually a lot of reasons that the IPA chose to avoid certain Latin alphabet irregularities, which I'll probably address in a future post (one example is the same letter, c, making two different sounds: /k/ in _sac_ and /tʃ/ _cello_).

### Why does it matter?

This is an important question to address: why even have one? Well, linguists needed a common ground between all languages: one where every single sound possible has a corresponding symbol. Also, written languages get very messy. There's so many different types of writing, and even within that there's so much variation between how sounds are actually written down. For example, the abjad Arab will write the sound /k/ as <ک>, while the abugida Hindi will write it as <क>. With all these symbols meaning the same exact sound, there's a need for a common system that all linguists can use and understand. Hence, the IPA was born.
